To Be Edited...
===============

	NGC 6826
	PLANETARY NEBULA



Right Ascension:	
19h 44m 48s	
	
Best Seen:	
6/1-12/1

Declination:	
50º 31' 30"	
	
Magnitude:	
8.8

	
	
	
	


Computer File:	
ngc6826	
	
Constellation:	
Cygnus





	
	
Actual	
	
Compared to 

Distance	
	
2,200 l.y.	
	
--

Diameter	
	
--	
	
--

Actual Brightness of central star	
	
--	
	
25 (Sun)

Magnitude of central star	
	
10.6	
	
--

Spectral type of central star	
	
--	
	
--

Surface Temperature of star	
	
--	
	
--

Age	
	
--	
	
--

Density (gram/cubic cm)	
	
--	
	
--




WHAT TO LOOK FOR THROUGH THE TELESCOPE:

1.	Recommended eyepiece: 26mm

2.	This object looks like a small white ball with a bright center.  The bright center is the central star which is a white dwarf.


NGC 6826 INFORMATION:

1.	This is sometimes called the “Blinking Planetary,” a reference to its illusion of blinking on and off.  When looked at directly, the nebula seems to disappear, but if the observer looks off to the side and uses peripheral vision, the nebula reappears.  This is called using averted vision.
 

2.	NGC 6826 has at least 2 shells of expanding gas, with a white dwarf forming at its core.  The outer gas shell contains about half of the star’s original mass.  The inner shell is a hot fast-moving bubble that is beginning to push the older material out.

3.	NGC 6826 has a pair of knots on either side of the main gas shell. These are Fast Low-Ionization Emission Regions (or FLIERs).  They are areas of low energy, yet are traveling at high speed, and may be part of the earliest part of the star’s death.




